=========================
Production Considerations
=========================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1

Feature Compatibility
---------------------

The ``featureCompatibilityVersion`` of all members of the replica set
must be ``4.0`` or greater.

.. _transaction-limit:

Runtime Limit
-------------

By default, a transaction must have a runtime of less than one minute.
You can modify this limit using
:parameter:`transactionLifetimeLimitSeconds`. Transactions that exceeds
this limit are considered expired and will be aborted by a periodic
cleanup process.

Oplog Size Limit
----------------

The oplog entry for the transaction must be within the BSON document
size limit of 16MB.

WiredTiger Cache
----------------

To prevent storage cache pressure from immobilizing the system:

- When you abandon a transaction, abort the transaction.

- When you encounter an error during individual operation in the
  transaction, abort the transaction and retry the transaction.

The :parameter:`transactionLifetimeLimitSeconds` also ensures that
expired transactions are aborted periodically to relieve storage cache
pressure.

Lock Request Timeout
--------------------

By default, transactions waits ``5`` milliseconds to acquire locks
required by the operations in the transaction. If the transaction
cannot acquire its required locks within the ``5`` milliseconds, the
transaction aborts.

Increasing :parameter:`maxTransactionLockRequestTimeoutMillis` allows
operations in the transactions to wait the specified time to acquire
the required locks. This can help obviate transaction aborts on
momentary concurrent lock acquisitions, like fast-running metadata
operations. However, this could possibly delay the abort of deadlocked
transaction operations.

.. include:: /includes/extracts/transactions-operations-catalog-tip.rst

.. _txn-prod-considerations-ddl:

Pending DDL Operations and Transactions
---------------------------------------

If a multi-document transaction is in progress, new DDL operations that
affect the same database(s) wait behind the transaction. While these
pending DDL operations exist, new transactions that access the same
database as the pending DDL operations cannot obtain the required locks
and will abort after waiting
:parameter:`maxTransactionLockRequestTimeoutMillis`. In addition, new
non-transaction operations that access the same database will block
until they reach their ``maxTimeMS`` limit.

To illustrate, compare the following two situations:

Consider a situation where an in-progress transaction performs various
CRUD operations on the ``employees`` collection in the ``hr`` database.
While that transaction is in progress, a separate transaction that
accesses the ``foobar`` collection in the ``hr`` database can start and
complete.

However, consider a situation where an in-progress transaction performs
various CRUD operations on the ``employees`` collection in the ``hr``
database and a separate DDL operation is issued to create an index on
the ``fluffy`` collection in the ``hr`` database. The DDL operation
waits for the transaction to finish.

While the DDL operation is pending, a new transaction attempts to
access the ``foobar`` collection in the ``hr`` database. If the DDL
operation remains pending for
:parameter:`maxTransactionLockRequestTimeoutMillis`, the new
transaction aborts.
